.TH BLANCHE 1 "14 Sep 1988" "Project Athena"
\" RCSID: $Header: /afs/athena.mit.edu/astaff/project/moiradev/repository/moira/man/blanche.1,v 1.16 2002-06-17 18:47:12 zacheiss Exp $
.SH NAME
blanche \- examine and modify memberships in Moira lists
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blanche listname [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Blanche
is a tool for maintaining the membership of Moira lists.  It is more
limited than the menu-oriented listmaint, but has a more traditional
unix user interface which makes it easier to use in scripts.  It can
also read a set of list members from a file and synchronize the list
in Moira to that file.

Whenever a member is specified, it may be specified explicitly, as
user:username, list:listname, string:string_text, or
kerberos:principal_name; or the type may
be left off if the member name is non ambiguous.  A member having
punctuation characters (such as at-sign) in it is immediately assumed
to be a string.  Otherwise,
.B blanche
will try first as a user, and if that fails will try the member as a
list, and finally fall back to string if both of those fail.

The default output mode is similar, in that usernames are displayed
without any identifying type, lists are always displayed as
list:listname, and strings will only be labeled as a string if they do
not have any punctuation characters in them.  Kerberos members will
always have the type displayed.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB-add\ \fImember\ \fRor\ \fB-a\ \fImember\fR
This will add the specified member to the target list.  This option
may be specified multiple times with different members on the same
command line.
.IP \fB-delete\ \fImember\ \fRor\ \fB-d\ \fImember\fR
This will delete the specified member from the target list.  This
option may be specified multiple times with different members on the
same command line.
.IP \fB-file\ \fIfilename\ \fRor\ \fB-f\ \fIfilename\fR
This will read a list of members from the named file, and make those
members be the membership of the target list.  It will do this by
extracting the current membership of the target list from Moira, then
diff these two sets of members, and determine who has to be added and
deleted from the list so it will match the contents of the file.

The file contains one member per line.  It may have blank lines.
Anything following a semicolon is considered a comment.  If the 
.I filename
is "-",
.B blanche
will read from standard input.
.IP \fB-info\ \fRor\ \fB-i\fR
Display other information about the target list besides the
membership.  This includes the description, flags, maillist and group
status, owner, and last modification.
.IP \fB-addlist\ \fIfilename\ \fRor\ \fB-al\ \fIfilename\fR
This will read a list of members from the named file, and add those
members to the target list.  The file format is specified above.
.IP \fB-deletelist\ \fIfilename\ \fRor\ \fB-dl\ \fIfilename\fR
This will read a list of members from the named file, and delete those
members from the target list.  The file format is specified above.
.IP \fB-members\ \fRor\ \fB-m\fR
Display the membership of the target list.  This is the default if no
other options are specified.
.IP \fB-users\ \fRor\ \fB-u\fR
Only display list members that are users (not lists or strings).  If
none of \fB-users, -lists, -strings, \fRor \fB-kerberos\fR is specified, then all
of them will be displayed.
.IP \fB-lists\ \fRor\ \fB-l\fR
Only display list members that are lists (not users or strings).  If
none of \fB-users, -lists, -strings, \fRor \fB-kerberos\fR is specified, then all
of them will be displayed.
.IP \fB-strings\ \fRor\ \fB-s\fR
Only display list members that are strings (not users or lists).  If
none of \fB-users, -lists, -strings, \fRor \fB-kerberos\fR is specified, then all
of them will be displayed.
.IP \fB-kerberos\ \fRor\ \fB-k\fR
Only display list members that are Kerberos principals (not users,
lists, or strings).  If
none of \fB-users, -lists, -strings, \fRor \fB-kerberos\fR is
specified, then all of them will be displayed.
.IP \fB-recursive\ \fRor\ \fB-r\fR
When displaying the membership of the target list, recursively track
down all lists that are members of the target, and get their
membership.  Only the user and string members will be displayed, not
the intermediate lists.
.IP \fB-verbose\ \fRor\ \fB-v\fR
Give more information.  With the info flag, it will also display the
number of members on the list.  With the members flag, it will display
the type of each member, not just those that are ambiguous.  When
changing the membership of a list, it will print a message for each
member added or deleted.
.IP \fB-noauth\ \fRor\ \fB-n\fR
Do not attempt to perform Kerberos authentication with the Moira server.
Retrieval operations on not-hidden lists are still possible without
tickets.
.IP \fB-database\ \fIhost:port\ \fRor\ \fB-db\ \fIhost:port\fR
Use the specified host and port to contact the Moira database instead of
the default server.  Both may be symbolic names or numbers.  If the
port is left off, the default Moira server port will be assumed.  The
database chosen will be the one specified on the command line, specified
in the MOIRASERVER environment variable, the hesiod "moira" sloc entry,
or the compiled in default, in that order or preference.
.IP \fB-create\ \fRor\ \fB-C\fR
Create the named list (assuming you have list-creation priviliges in
Moira.) By default it will be active, private, visible, a mailing
list, and not a group, although this can be changed with the flags
below.
.IP \fB-rename\ \fInewname\ \fRor\ \fB-R\ \fInewname\fR
Rename the list to the new name.
.IP \fB-public\ \fR(\fB-P\fR)\ \fRor\ \fB-private\ \fR(\fB-NP\fR)
Make the list public or private. (Users can add themselves to public
lists.)
.IP \fB-active\ \fR(\fB-A\fR)\ \fRor\ \fB-inactive\ \fR(\fB-I\fR)
Make the list active or inactive. (Inactive lists are not propagated
to the mailhubs and fileservers.)
.IP \fB-visible\ \fR(\fB-V\fR)\ \fRor\ \fB-hidden\ \fR(\fB-H\fR)
Make the list visible or hidden. (Hidden lists are harder to find the
membership and admistrators of.)
.IP \fB-mail\ \fR(\fB-M\fR)\ \fRor\ \fB-notmail\ \fR(\fB-NM\fR)
Toggle whether or not the list is a mailing list.
.IP \fB-group\ \fR(\fB-G\fR)\ \fRor\ \fB-notgroup\ \fR(\fB-NG\fR)
Toggle whether or not the list is a group. (Groups can be used on the
ACLs of directories in AFS.)
.IP \fB-nfsgroup\ \fR(\fB-N\fR)\ \fRor\ \fB-notnfs\ \fR(\fB-NN\fR)
Toggle whether or not the list is an NFS group.  (NFS groups are
included in a user's hesiod group list and in Moira-generated NFS
credentials file, and can be used for controlling access to NFS exported
filesystems.)
.IP \fB-desc\ \fIdescription\ \fRor\ \fB-D\ \fIdescription\fR
Set the description of the list.
.IP \fB-owner\ \fIowner\ \fRor\ \fB-O\ \fIowner\fR
Set the owner of the list. The owner is specified like a list member,
except that list owners can never be strings.
.IP \fB-memacl\ \fImembership_acl\ \fRor\ \fB-MA\ \fImembership_acl\fR
Set the mebership acl of the list; members of this acl will be allowed
to add and remove members of the list, but not update any other
characteristics. The membership acl is specified like a list member,
except that it can never be a string.
To return a list to having default membership access control
conditions, set the membership acl to "NONE".

.SH AUTHORS
Mark Rosenstein and Jay Berkenbilt.
.SH SEE ALSO
listmaint(1)

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The exit status from blanche is not as useful as you might hope. An
exit status of 2 indicates a problem contacting the server or reading
an input file. An exit status of 1 indicates that at least one add or
delete failed, and an exit status of 0 indicates that all adds and
deletes succeeded. If you need the exit status to be meaningful, you
should only do one add or delete at a time.

.SH NOTES
The listname doesn't actually have to be the first argument, but if
you put it anywhere else, it's easy to get the other arguments in the
wrong order and do something other than what you intended.
