.TH CHFN 1 "1 Feb 1988" "Project Athena"
\" RCSID: $HeadURL: svn+ssh://svn.mit.edu/moira/trunk/moira/man/chfn.1 $ $Id: chfn.1 3956 2010-01-05 20:56:56Z zacheiss $
.SH NAME
chfn \- change finger information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chfn
[ username ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command changes (or installs)
the GECOS information field
associated with
.IR username
(your own name by default).  It also asks for some information not in
the standard GECOS field, such as a nickname and home address.
The GECOS information is the information shown by
.I finger(1).
.PP
When invoked,
.B chfn
displays the current information as default values
while prompting for any changes.
The fields include a user's
``real life'' name, nickname, home address and phone number,
office address and phone number, department and year.
Included in each prompt is a default value,
which is enclosed between brackets.
The default value is accepted simply by typing a carriage
return.  To enter a blank field, the word ``none'' may
be typed.  Below is a sample run:
.PP
Info last changed on 22-mar-1988 15:13:33 by user studley using chfn
.br
Name [Biff Studsworth II]:
.br
Nickname [Studley]:
.br
Home address (Ex: EC Bemis 514) [New House 4-601]:
.br
Home phone number (Ex: 3141592) [225-1234]:
.br
Office address (Exs: E40-342 or 2-108) [E40-300M]: \fBE40-358M\fP
.br
Office phone (Ex: 3-7619) []: \fB1863\fP
.br
MIT department (Exs: 9, Biology, Information Services) [VI-3]: \fBnone\fP
.br
MIT year (Exs: 1989, '91, Faculty, Grad) ['90]: \fB\'91\fP
.PP
.I chfn
allows phone numbers to be entered with or without hyphens.
.PP
Note that the changes will not show up with
.I finger
until the day after the database has been changed.
.PP
Users may only change their own information unless they are
Moira database administrators.
.SH AUTHOR
Emanuel 'Jay' Berkenbilt
.SH "SEE ALSO"
moira(1), finger(1)
