.TH CHPOBOX 1 "5 Feb 1988" "Project Athena"
\" RCSID: $Header$
.SH NAME
chpobox \- change address at which user receives mail
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 8
chpobox [ username ]
.TP 8
chpobox [ \-s address | \-S address | \-p ] [ \-u username ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Your post office box is what determines where you will receive
mail.  It can be of several types: 
.I POP, IMAP, SMTP, SPLIT
or
.IR NONE .

In the first use of this command, the post office box of the
user whose name corresponds to the single argument
.I username
(or your own name if 
.I username
is not specified) is displayed.

In the second use, this command sets the 
actual address that will receive mail sent to 
.I username@MIT.EDU
(where 
.I username
is your own name if you have not specified it on the command line).
It should be used if you want to change where you will 
receive mail.  

The 
.I chpobox 
command is used instead of the file
.I .forward,
which would be used with standard UNIX mail. 

In order to change the address that receives mail sent to 
.I username@MIT.EDU,
use the 
.B -s
option.  Specifically, to reroute your mail to
the address 
.I name@host,
you would issue the command

.nf
.nj
chpobox -s name@host
.fi

To split mail between your local post office box and a remote address,
use the
.B -S
option.

To restore your post office box to its original Athena default,
use the 
.B -p
flag.  This will set your mailbox to the last POP or IMAP server
it was using.
.PP

Only one of 
.B -p
or
.B -s
or
.B -S
may be used at a time.

Note that the actual change may take up to a day to 
propogate to the mail hub.

.SH NOTE

When a mailbox is stored in the central database, any host mentioned
will have its name canonicalized to a standard form.  If for some
reason you don't want to have the hostname canonicalized, put
.B just the hostname
in double-quotes.  For example, the command
.nf
.nj
	chpobox -s jrhacker@\\"cd.mit.edu\\"
.fi
will not be canonicalized to jrhacker@ls.mit.edu, as it would
otherwise.  Also note that the double-quotes were preceded by
backslashes to get them past the shell.

.SH SEE ALSO
moira(1),

Moira Section of the Project Athena Technical Plan.
