.TH UPDATE_SERVER 8 "30 Nov 1988" "Project Athena"
\" RCSID: $Header$
.SH NAME
update_server \- daemon that accepts config files from Moira
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B update_server
.SH DESCRIPTION
An
.B update_server
must be started at boot time on each server that is to be updated by
Moira.  It should be run as root.  It takes no arguments, and will
detach from the tty and put itself in background.  It attempts to log
its actions to stdout, so the output should be directed to a file if
it is needed.
.SH OPTIONS
While there are no command line options, a configuration file
.I /etc/athena/moira.conf
may specify a number of options.  This file may contain blank lines,
comments preceeded by hash marks, boolean options, or string options.
A boolean option is set by just putting the name of the option on a
line.  A string option is specified by putting the name of the option,
some whitespace, and then the value.
.IP "user username"
This will set the UID of the running server to the specified user's
UID.  All file accesses and the execution of the instructions will be
with this user's privileges.
.IP "chroot directory"
This will set the root directory to the specified directory for the
running of the server.  It uses the chroot system call, so when used
in conjunction with the
.I user
option should make the server quite secure.
.IP nofork
This boolean specifies that the server should not fork when a new
connection is opened.  This is only useful for debugging, as when the
client connection is closed, the server will exit.
.IP noclobber
This boolean specifies that the server is not allowed to overwrite any
existing files while it is receiving datafiles and instructions.
.IP noexec
This boolean specifies that the server is not allowed to execute any
instructions.  It may receive datafiles and instructions, but not
execute anything.
.IP "auth user.instance@REALM"
This specifies a Kerberos principal that is allowed to connect to the
server.  This option may be specified multiple times with different
principals.  If none are specified, the user
.B sms
in the local realm is assumed.
.SH FILES
/etc/athena/moira.conf \- For configuration variables.
/etc/athena/srvtab \- It must be able to get rcmd Kerberos tickets.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The Project Athena Technical Plan section on Moira.
