.TH ADDUSR 1 "12 Jan 1996" "Project Athena"
\" RCSID: $Header: /afs/.athena.mit.edu/astaff/project/moiradev/repository/moira/man/addusr.1,v 1.6 2005-05-06 18:12:19 zacheiss Exp $
.SH NAME
addusr \- add and/or register users in Moira
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B addusr [-cCdfhnrRsSv6]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Addusr
is a tool for adding users in bulk to the moira database and
registering them for accounts.  It reads the users from a file (or
stdin) rather than the menu-oriented regular moira client.

The users are entered in one of two formats, depending on whether or
not they will be registered.  When users are only being added to the
database, the format is:
.nf
  lastname, firstname middlename idnumber
.fi
The lastname may have spaces in it, as it will continue up until the
first comma on the line.  The firstname also may have spaces, as it
will take up everything but the last two tokens on the line.  If only
3 tokens are on the line, the middlename will be assumed to be the
empty string.  The middlename cannot have spaces in it.  The idnumber
also cannot have spaces, although it may have hyphens in it.  The
capitalization of the names is not important as it will be corrected
before entering into the database, unless the \fB-n\fR flag has been
specified.  If the operation specified for
.B addusr
includes registering users, then there is one additional token on
the end of the line:
.nf
  lastname, firstname middlename idnumber loginname
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB-file\ \fIfilename\ \fRor\ \fB-f\ \fIfilename\fR:
This specifies the file that will be read for the list of users to
operate on.  If not specifed, standard input will be used.  The file
format is described above.
.IP \fB-class\ \fIclass\ \fRor\ \fB-c\ \fIclass\fR:
This specifies the account class that will be used for all users added
in this invocation.  If not specified, \fITEMP\fR will be used.
.IP \fB-comment\ \fI"comment"\ \fRor\ \fB-C\ \fI"comment"\fR:
This specifies the comment that will be stored for all users added
in this invocation.  If not specified, the comment field will be left
blank.  Note that the double-quotes are not required by \fBaddusr\fR,
but will be parsed out by the shell and are only needed to specify
comments with spaces in them.
.IP \fB-status\ \fIstatus\ \fRor\ \fB-s\ \fIstatus\fR:
This specifies the account status that will be used for all users added
in this invocation.  If not specified, \fI0 (registerable)\fR will be used.
.IP \fB-shell\ \fIshell\ \fRor\ \fB-h\ \fIshell\fR:
This specifies the login shell that will be stored for all users added
in this invocation.  If not specified, a default will be used.  At MIT
Athena the default is \fI/bin/athena/tcsh\fR, elsewhere it is likely to be 
\fI/bin/csh\fR.
.IP \fB-register\ \fRor\ \fB-R\fR:
This instructs \fBaddusr\fR to both add the users to the database and
then to immediately register them. The users will be left
"half-registered", meaning that they have everything but a Kerberos
principal.
.IP \fB-reg_only\ \fRor\ \fB-r\fR:
This instructs \fBaddusr\fR to (half-) register the users without
attempting to add them to the database. They must already exist in the
database.
.IP \fB-verbose\ \fRor\ \fB-v\fR:
This causes \fBaddusr\fR to print messages about each operation as it
performs it.
.IP \fB-nodupcheck\ \fRor\ \fB-d\fR:
Do not attempt to check the database for duplicates before adding
users.  Normally \fBaddusr\fR will check the database for users with
the same name.  If it finds any who match in both name and ID number,
the user will not be added.  If it finds a name match with a different
ID number, it will print a warning and add the user anyway.
.IP \fB-nocaps\ \fRor\ \fB-n\fR:
Do not attempt to normalize the capitalization of first, middle, and
last names before adding users.  Normally, \fBaddusr\fR will update the
capitalization of names based on a set of heuristics.  This flag can be
used to suppress this behavior if it is inappropriate for certain names.
.IP \fB-database\ \fIhost:port\ \fRor\ \fB-db\ \fIhost:port\fR:
Use the specified host and port to contact the Moira server instead of
the default server.  Both may be symbolic names or numbers.  If the
port is left off, the default Moira server port will be assumed.  The
server chosen will be the one specified on the command line, specified
in the MOIRASERVER environment variable, the hesiod "moira" sloc entry,
or the compiled in default, in that order or preference.
.IP \fB-secure\ \fRor\ \fB-6\fR:
This specifies that users added in this invocation will need a secure
"Account Coupon" containing additional verification information beyond
name and ID number to be allowed to register.

.SH AUTHOR
Mark Rosenstein
.SH SEE ALSO
moira(1), userreg(1)
