.TH CHFN 1 "1 Feb 1988" "Project Athena"
\" RCSID: $Header: /afs/.athena.mit.edu/astaff/project/moiradev/repository/moira/man/chfn.1,v 1.1 1988-02-08 15:47:33 mar Exp $
.SH NAME
chfn \- change finger information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chfn
[ username ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command changes (or installs)
then GECOS information field
associated with
.IR username
(your own name by default).
The GECOS information is the information shown by
.I finger(1).
.PP
When invoked,
.B chfn
displays the current information as default values
while prompting for any changes.
The fields include a user's
``real life'' name, nickname, home address and phone number,
office address and phone number, department and year.
Included in each prompt is a default value,
which is enclosed between brackets.
The default value is accepted simply by typing a carriage
return.  To enter a blank field, the word ``none'' may
be typed.  Below is a sample run:
.IP
.B "Name [Biff Studsworth II]:"
.br
.B "Nickname [Studley]:"
.br
.B "Home address (Ex: Bemis 304) [New House 4-601]:"
.br
.B "Home phone number (Ex: 4660000) [225-1234]:"
.br
.B "Office address (Exs: 597 Tech Square or 10-256) [E40-300M]:"
E40-358M
.br
.B "Office phone (Ex: 3-1300) []:"
1863
.br
.B "MIT department (Exs: EECS, Biology, Information Services) [VI-3]:"
none
.br
.B "MIT year (Exs: 1989, '91, Faculty, Grad) ['90]:"
'91
.sp
.PP
.I chfn
allows phone numbers to be entered with or without hyphens.
If only four digits are entered for a phone number, and MIT extension
is assumed.  If the Office address ends in "M", it will assume an MIT
room, if it ends in "T", it will assume Tech Square.
.PP
Note that the changes will not show up with
.I finger
until several hours after the database has been changed.
.PP
Users may only change their own information unless they are
SMS database administrators.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
usermaint(1), finger(1)
