.TH EUNICE 1 "17 Mar 2010" "MIT Athena"
\" RCSID: $HeadURL: svn+ssh://svn.mit.edu/moira/trunk/moira/man/mitch.1 $ $Id: mitch.1 3956 2010-01-05 20:56:56Z zacheiss $
.SH NAME
eunice \- examine and modify informtion about printers in Moira
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eunice printername [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Eunice
is a tool for updating information about printers in Moira.  It
supports all printer modification commands.

If no options are specified, it will assume \fI-info\fR, which will
result in all information about the specified printer being displayed.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP \fB-info\ \fRor\ \fB-i\fR
Display information about a printer. This is the default mode if no
other options are given. The output is similar to that of moira.

.IP \fB-location\ \fIlocation\ \fRor\ \fB-l\ \fIlocation\fR
Update the location field for the specified printer to \fIlocation\fR.
.IP \fB-contact\ \fIcontact\ \fRor\ \fB-c\ \fIcontact\fR
Update the contact field for the specified printer to \fIcontact\fR.

.IP \fB-hostname\ \fIhostname\ \fRor\ \fB-H\ \fIhostname\fR
Update the hostname for the specified printer to \fIhostname\fR.
.IP \fB-remotename\ \fIname\ \fRor\ \fB-r\ \fIname\fR
Update the remote queue name for the specified printer to \fIname\fR.
.IP \fB-duplex\ \fIname\ \fRor\ \fB-d\ \fIname\fR
Update the duplex queue name associated with the specific printer to \fIname\fR.
.IP \fB-printserver\ \fIhostname\ \fRor\ \fB-s\ \fIhostname\fR
Update the print server for the specific printer to \fIhostname\fR.  The
print server may first need to be created via the "Print Servers" menu
in the moira(1) client before queues may be assigned to it.

.IP \fB-type\ \fItype\ \fRor\ \fB-T\ \fItype\fR
Update the type for the specified printer to \fItype\fR.  Common types
include CLUSTER, DORM, PRIVATE, and SAP.
.IP \fB-model\ \fImodel\ \fRor\ \fB-M\ \fImodel\fR
Update the model field for the specified printer to \fImodel\fR.  The
model may first need to be created in the Moira aliases table before it
can be used.

.IP \fB-kerbauth\ \fRor\ \fB-K\fR
Require Kerberos authentication of print requests.
.IP \fB-nokerbauth\ \fRor\ \fB-NK\fR
Do not require Kerberos authentication of print requests.
.IP \fB-banner\ \fRor\ \fB-b\fR
Print header pages by default.  They may still be suppressed by
client configuration.
.IP \fB-nobanner\ \fRor\ \fB-nb\fR
Do not print header pages by default.  They may still be enabled by
client configuration.

.IP \fB-lpcacl\ \fIlist\ \fRor\ \fB-l\ \fIlist\fR
Set the LPC acl for the specified printer to \fIlist\fR.

.IP \fB-lpracl\ \fIlist\ \fRor\ \fB-ac\ \fIlist\fR
Set the restrict list for the specified printer to \fIlist\fR.

.IP \fB-addidentifier\ \fIidentifier\ \fRor\ \fB-aid\ \fIidentifier\fR
This will associate the host identifier \fIidentifier\fR with the
host record for the specified printer.  Identifier should be of the form
type:value, where type is one of HWADDR or DUID.  If no type is
specified, a default of HWADDR will be assumed.
.IP \fB-delidentifier\ \fIidentifier\ \fRor\ \fB-did\ \fIidentifier\fR
This will disassociate the hardware address \fIidentifier\fR from the
host record for the specified printer.  Identifier should be of the form
type:value, where type is one of HWADDR or DUID.  If no type is
specified, a default of HWADDR will be assumed.

.IP \fB-verbose\ \fRor\ \fB-v\fR
Give more information.  With this flag, mitch will display the
queries it is making to the moira server.
.IP \fB-noauth\ \fRor\ \fB-n\fR
Do not attempt to perform Kerberos authentication with the Moira server.
Most lookup operations should be still possible without tickets.
.IP \fB-database\ \fIhost:port\ \fRor\ \fB-db\ \fIhost:port\fR
Use the specified host and port to contact the Moira database instead of
the default server.  Both may be symbolic names or numbers.  If the
port is left off, the default Moira server port will be assumed.  The
database chosen will be the one specified on the command line, specified
in the MOIRASERVER environment variable, the hesiod "moira" sloc entry,
or the compiled in default, in that order or preference.

.IP \fB-create\ \fRor\ \fB-C\fR
This will create the specified printer, with information provided by
other options.
.IP \fB-delete\ \fRor\ \fB-D\fR
This will delete the specified printer.
.IP \fB-rename\ \fInewname\ \fRor\ \fB-R\ \fInewname\fR
This will rename the specified printer to \fInewname\fR.

.SH AUTHORS
Mark Manley, MIT Information Services & Technology.
.br
Garry Zacheiss, MIT Information Services & Technology.
.SH SEE ALSO
moira(1)

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
An exit status of 2 indicates a problem contacting the server. An exit
status of 1 indicates that the arguments could not be parsed or some
query to the moira server returned an error. An exit status of 0
indicates that all operations requested completed successfully.

.SH NOTES
The printer name doesn't actually have to be the first argument, but
if you put it anywhere else, it's easy to get the other arguments in the
wrong order and do something other than what you intended.

