.TH MITCH 1 "22 Jan 2003" "MIT Athena"
\" RCSID: $HeadURL: svn+ssh://svn.mit.edu/moira/trunk/moira/man/mitch.1 $ $Id: mitch.1 3956 2010-01-05 20:56:56Z zacheiss $
.SH NAME
mitch \- examine and modify informtion about containers in Moira
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mitch containername [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mitch
is a tool for updating information about containers in Moira.  It
supports all container modification commands and options to list, add,
and remove machines to and from containers.

If no options are specified, it will assume \fI-info\fR, which will
result in all information about the specified container being displayed.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP \fB-info\ \fRor\ \fB-i\fR
Display information about a container. This is the default mode if no
other options are given. The output is similar to that of moira.

.IP \fB-desc\ \fIdescription\ \fRor\ \fB-d\ \fIdescription\fR
Update the description field for the specified container to \fIdescription\fR.
.IP \fB-location\ \fIlocation\ \fRor\ \fB-l\ \fIlocation\fR
Update the location field for the specified container to \fIlocation\fR.
.IP \fB-contact\ \fIcontact\ \fRor\ \fB-c\ \fIcontact\fR
Update the contact field for the specified container to \fIcontact\fR.

.IP \fB-owner\ \fIowner\ \fRor\ \fB-O\ \fIowner\fR
Set the owner of the specified container to \fIowner\fR.

You may specify an owner explicitly, as user:username, list:listname, or
kerberos:principal_name; or the type may be left off if the owner name
is non ambiguous.
.B Mitch
will try first as a user, and if that fails will try the owner as a
list.

.IP \fB-memacl\ \fImembership_acl\ \fRor\ \fB-MA\ \fImembership_acl\fR
Set the mebership acl of the container; members of this acl will be
allowed to add and remove members of the container, but not update any
other characteristics. The membership acl is specified like a list
member, except that it can never be a string.  To return a container to
having default membership access control conditions, set the membership
acl to "NONE".

.IP \fB-public\ \fR(\fB-P\fR)\ \fRor\ \fB-private\ \fR(\fB-NP\fR)
Make the container public or private. (Anyone can add a machine to a
public container.)

.IP \fB-unformatted\ \fRor\ \fB-u\fR
Display container information with each field on a seperate line, in the
form "fieldname: value".
.IP \fB-verbose\ \fRor\ \fB-v\fR
Give more information.  With this flag, mitch will display the
queries it is making to the moira server.
.IP \fB-noauth\ \fRor\ \fB-n\fR
Do not attempt to perform Kerberos authentication with the Moira server.
Most lookup operations should be still possible without tickets.
.IP \fB-database\ \fIhost:port\ \fRor\ \fB-db\ \fIhost:port\fR
Use the specified host and port to contact the Moira database instead of
the default server.  Both may be symbolic names or numbers.  If the
port is left off, the default Moira server port will be assumed.  The
database chosen will be the one specified on the command line, specified
in the MOIRASERVER environment variable, the hesiod "moira" sloc entry,
or the compiled in default, in that order or preference.

.IP \fB-create\ \fRor\ \fB-C\fR
This will create the specified container, with information provided by
other options.
.IP \fB-delete\ \fRor\ \fB-D\fR
This will delete the specified container, if the container contains no
machines.
.IP \fB-rename\ \fInewname\ \fRor\ \fB-R\ \fInewname\fR
This will rename the specified container to \fInewname\fR.

.IP \fB-recursive\ \fRor\ \fB-r\fR
When specified along with the
\fB-listmach\fR
or
\fB-listsub\fR
options, will provide a recursive listing.

.IP \fB-listmach\ \fRor\ \fB-lm\fR
This will list the machines that are members of the container. Use the
\fB-r\fR
flag for a recursive listing.
.IP \fB-addmach\ \fIhostname\ \fRor\ \fB-am\ \fIhostname\fR
This will add \fIhostname\fR to the specified container.
.IP \fB-deletemach\ \fIhostname\ \fRor\ \fB-dm\ \fIhostname\fR
This will remove \fIhostname\fR from the specified container.

.IP \fB-listsub\ \fRor\ \fB-ls\fR
This will list subcontainers of the specified container.  Use the
\fB-r\fR
flag for a recursive listing.

.SH AUTHORS
Garry Zacheiss, MIT Information Systems.
.SH SEE ALSO
moira(1)

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
An exit status of 2 indicates a problem contacting the server. An exit
status of 1 indicates that the arguments could not be parsed or some
query to the moira server returned an error. An exit status of 0
indicates that all operations requested completed successfully.

.SH NOTES
The container name doesn't actually have to be the first argument, but
if you put it anywhere else, it's easy to get the other arguments in the
wrong order and do something other than what you intended.

