.TH MOIRAD 8 "30 Nov 1988" "Project Athena"
\" RCSID: $Header: /afs/.athena.mit.edu/astaff/project/moiradev/repository/moira/man/moirad.8,v 1.5 1990-03-20 11:28:03 mar Exp $
.SH NAME
moirad, startmoira \- Moira query daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B moirad
.br
.B startmoira
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Moira server
must be running on the machine hosting the Moira database for any of the
Moira clients to function.  Rather than invoke
.B moirad
directly, it is started by
.B startmoira,
which starts the daemon running in the proper working directory and
captures logging messages.
.PP
Logging is done to standard output.
How much gets logged by
.B moirad
is controlled by the variable
.I log_flags
which is compiled into the file
.I mr_srvdata.c.
If critical errors are detected, they are logged to
.B /u1/sms/critical.log
and in a zephyrgram to class
.B MOIRA
instance
.B MOIRA
in addition to standard output.
Also, a journal file is kept in
.B /u1/sms/journal
logging every successful change of the database in a format that can
be replayed by
.I mrtest(8).
For the server to be able to function properly, if must be run as root
and root must have access to the tables through RTI Ingres.
.PP
It is possible to shutdown the database side of the server when it is
necessary to lock out clients.  In this state the server will only
respond to noop and motd requests.  When the file
.B /etc/smsdown
exists, the server will close the database the next time there are no
clients using it.  To force the server to close down the database as
soon as any active operation is finished, send it a USR1 signal.  The
first time a new client connects after the
.B /etc/smsdown
file is removed, the database will be re-opened.  To force an
immediate reopening, send the server a USR2 signal.  The contents of
the
.B /etc/smsdown
file are returned as the Moira motd.
.PP
.B startmoira
sets its working directory to the root, disconnects from the terminal
and puts itself in the background.  It then starts
.B /u1/sms/bin/moirad,
and will capture lines the server writes to standard output and log them
in
.B /u1/sms/moira.log
along with a timestamp.
.B startmoira
will also log the exit status of the
.B moirad
if it is non-zero.
.SH FILES
/u1/sms/moira.log
.br
/u1/sms/critical.log
.br
/u1/sms/journal
.br
/etc/smsdown
.br
/etc/srvtab \- The server must be able to get Kerberos tickets for
"moira.[servername]".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The Project Athena Technical Plan section on Moira.
