.TH SMSCHECK 1 "7 Feb 1988" "Project Athena"
\" RCSID: $Header: /afs/.athena.mit.edu/astaff/project/moiradev/repository/moira/man/mrcheck.1,v 1.2 1988-03-01 19:53:22 mar Exp $
.UC 4
.SH NAME
smscheck \- verify that SMS updates are successful
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smscheck
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Smscheck
will query the SMS database to determine of every system server which
should be updated has been successfully updated.  It will display a
one line summary for each service/host pair which has not been
successfully updated.  If all services are up-to-date, this will be
indicated.
.PP
The following information is displayed for unsuccessful services:
.TP
service
the name of the service
.TP
host
the internet hostname
.TP
s
The success/failure flag.  A value of 0 here indicates that the last
updated attempt failed.
.TP
e
The enable flag.  A value of 0 here indicates that this service/host
tuple is disabled.  This flag must be set for updates to be attempted.
Entries that are disabled are ignored by 
.I smscheck.
.TP
override
This shows the length of the re-try interval.  This length of time
after the last time an update was attempted, the DCM will try again.
.TP
last time attempted
This shows the date and time of the last update
attempt.
.TP
val1, val2
These values are service dependant, and are ignored by
the update algorithm.
.PP
The determination that a service needs updating is that the last update
failed, or that the current update is more than an hour past due.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Pay attention to Kerberos diagnostics, as one must be authenticated to
do most SMS database work.  
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dcmmaint(1), SMS section of the Project Athena Technical Plan
