.TH SETQUOTA 8 "23 Jan 1989" "Project Athena"
\" RCSID: $Header: /afs/.athena.mit.edu/astaff/project/moiradev/repository/moira/man/setquota.8,v 1.1 1990-01-26 20:36:21 jnrees Exp $
.UC 4
.SH NAME
setquota \- set the disk usage quotas for a given user and partition
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setquota
[-u]
.I special uid quota
.br
.B setquota
-r [-u]
.I special low_uid high_uid quota
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Setquota
will set the hard and soft limits on disk usage and inode
usage for the user with
.I uid
on the partition
.I special. special
can be either the block device name (ie.
.I /dev/rz3g
) or the directory it's mounted on. (ie.
.I /u1
). The user's soft disk usage limit will be set to
.I quota.
The soft inode usage limit will be set to half that amount.
The hard limits will be set to 1.2 times the soft limits.
.SH OPTIONS
If the
.B \-u
option is given, then the specified
.I quota
will be added to the current usage to obtain the new soft limit.  The
remaining values are then set relative to this as specified above.
If the
.B \-r
option is given, then all the quotas for the inclusive range of uid's
are set to the given quota (plus usage with the
.B \-u
option).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
An error will occur if you attempt to set the quota for a user whose
uid is higher than any other recorded in the quotas file.  To fix
this, you must grow the quotas file first.
.SH AUTHORS
Bill Sommerfeld, MIT Project Athena
.br
Jim Rees, MIT Project Athena
.SH "SEE ALSO"
quota(1), quota(2), edquota(8), quotacheck(8), quotaon(8), repquota(8)
