.TH STANLEY 1 "25 Sep 2001" "MIT Athena"
\" RCSID: $Header: /afs/.athena.mit.edu/astaff/project/moiradev/repository/moira/man/stanley.1,v 1.3 2001-09-26 05:58:07 zacheiss Exp $
.SH NAME
stanley \- examine and modify information about users in Moira
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stanley hostname [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Stanley
is a tool for updating information about users in Moira. It supports
all user modification commands and a few options to change user
reservations.

If no options are specified, it will assume \fI-info\fR, which will
result in all information about the specified user being displayed.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP \fB-info\ \fRor\ \fB-i\fR
Display information about a user. This is the default mode if no other
options are given. The output is similar to that of moira.

.IP \fB-addreservation\ \fIreservation\ \fRor\ \fB-ar\ \fIreservation\fR
This will add the reservation \fIreservation\fR for the user.  This
option can be specified multiple times with different reservations
on the same command line.
.IP \fB-deletereservation\ \fIreservation\ \fRor\ \fB-dr\ \fIreservation\fR
This will remove the reservation \fIreservation\fR for the given user. This
option can be specified multiple times with different reservations
on the same command line.

.IP \fB-listreservation\ \fRor\ \fB-lr\fR
This will list reservations for the specified user.

.IP \fB-uid\ \fIuid\ \fRor\ \fB-u\ \fIuid\fR
Update the uid field for the specified user to \fIuid\fR.
.IP \fB-shell\ \fIshell\ \fRor\ \fB-s\ \fIshell\fR
Update the shell field for the specified user to \fIshell\fR.
.IP \fB-winshell\ \fIwinshell\ \fRor\ \fB-w\ \fIwinshell\fR
Update the winshell field for the specified user to \fIwinshell\fR.
.IP \fB-status\ \fIstatus\ \fRor\ \fB-S\ \fIstatus\fR
Update the status field for the specified user to \fIstatus\fR.

.IP \fB-first\ \fIfirstname\ \fRor\ \fB-F\ \fIfirstname\fR
Change the first name of the given user to \fIfirstname\fR.
.IP \fB-last\ \fIlastname\ \fRor\ \fB-L\ \fIlastname\fR
Change the last name of the given user to \fIlastname\fR.
.IP \fB-middle\ \fImiddlename\ \fRor\ \fB-M\ \fImiddlename\fR
Change the middle name of the given user to \fImiddlename\fR.

.IP \fB-mitid\ \fImitid\ \fRor\ \fB-I\ \fImitid\fR
Change the MIT ID number of the given user to \fImitid\fR.
.IP \fB-class\ \fIclass\ \fRor\ \fB-cl\ \fIclass\fR
Change the class of the given user to \fIclass\fR.
.IP \fB-comment\ \fIcomment\ \fRor\ \fB-c\ \fIcomment\fR
Update the comment for the given user to \fIcomment\fR.

.IP \fB-secure\ \fI0|1\ \fRor\ \fB-6\ \fI0|1\fR
Change whether a user requires a secure Account Coupon to register for
an account.

.IP \fB-unformatted\ \fRor\ \fB-u\fR
Display host information with each field on a seperate line, in the 
form "fieldname: value".
.IP \fB-verbose\ \fRor\ \fB-v\fR
Give more information.  With this flag, stanley will display the
queries it is making to the moira server.
.IP \fB-noauth\ \fRor\ \fB-n\fR
Do not attempt to perform Kerberos authentication with the Moira server.
Most lookup operations should be still possible without tickets.
.IP \fB-database\ \fIhost:port\ \fRor\ \fB-db\ \fIhost:port\fR
Use the specified host and port to contact the Moira database instead of
the default server.  Both may be symbolic names or numbers.  If the
port is left off, the default Moira server port will be assumed.  The
database chosen will be the one specified on the command line, specified
in the MOIRASERVER environment variable, the hesiod "moira" sloc entry,
or the compiled in default, in that order or preference.

.IP \fB-create\ \fRor\ \fB-C\fR
This will create the specified user, with information provided by other
options. By default, the user will be be status 0, and will be assigned
a unique username and uid, and will not require an Account Coupon to register.
.IP \fB-deact\ \fRor\ \fB-D\fR
This will deactivate the specified user, as well as the matching list
and filesystem, assuming they exist.
.IP \fB-rename\ \fInewname\ \fRor\ \fB-R\ \fInewname\fR
This will rename the given user to \fInewname\fR.
.IP \fB-register\ \fRor\ \fB-r\fR
This will register the specified username, creating a filesystem and
assigning a PO Box.  It will not create a Kerberos principal.  A status
0 user will be status 2 after having been registered in this way, and
the user will still need to use the registration applet to set an
initial password.  Status 6 users will be status 1 and have full Athena
accounts after being registered.

.SH AUTHORS
Garry Zacheiss, MIT Information Systems.
.SH SEE ALSO
moira(1)

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
An exit status of 2 indicates a problem contacting the server. An exit
status of 1 indicates that the arguments could not be parsed or some
query to the moira server returned an error. An exit status of 0
indicates that all operations requested completed successfully.

.SH NOTES
The username doesn't actually have to be the first argument, but if
you put it anywhere else, it's easy to get the other arguments in the
wrong order and do something other than what you intended.
