.TH STELLA 1 "17 Mar 2010" "MIT Athena"
\" RCSID: $HeadURL$ $Id$
.SH NAME
stella \- examine and modify information about hosts in Moira
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stella hostname [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Stella
is a tool for updating information about hosts in Moira. It supports
all host modification commands and a few options to change cluster
mapping.

If no options are specified, it will assume \fI-info\fR, which will
result in all information about the specified host being displayed.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP \fB-info\ \fRor\ \fB-i\fR
Display information about a host. This is the default mode if no other
options are given. The output is similar to that of moira.

.IP \fB-addalias\ \fIaliasname\ \fRor\ \fB-a\ \fIaliasname\fR
This will add \fIaliasname\fR as an alias for the given host. This
option can be specified multiple times with different alias names
on the same command line.
.IP \fB-deletealias\ \fIaliasname\ \fRor\ \fB-d\ \fIaliasname\fR
This will remove the alias \fIaliasname\fR for the given host. This
option can be specified multiple times with different alias names
on the same command line.

.IP \fB-listmap\ \fRor\ \fB-lm\fR
This will list cluster mappings for the specified host; that is,
the clusters to which the host belongs.
.IP \fB-addmap\ \fIcluster\ \fRor\ \fB-am\ \fIcluster\fR
This will add the specified host to \fIcluster\fR.
.IP \fB-deletemap\ \fIcluster\ \fRor\ \fB-dm\ \fIcluster\fR
This will delete the specified host from \fIcluster\fR.

.IP \fB-listcontainer\ \fRor\ \fB-lcn\fR
This will list the Active Directory container membership for the 
specified host.  Unlike clusters, a machine may only belong to a 
single container.
.IP \fB-addcontainer\ \fIcontainer\ \fRor\ \fB-acn\ \fIcontainer\fR
This will add the specified host to \fIcontainer\fR.
.IP \fB-deletecontainer\ \fIcontainer\ \fRor\ \fB-dcn\ \fIcontainer\fR
This will delete the specified host from \fIcontainer\fR. 

.IP \fB-listidentifier\ \fRor\ \fB-lid\fR
This will list the identifiers associated with the
specified host.
.IP \fB-addidentifier\ \fIidentifier\ \fRor\ \fB-aid\ \fIidentifier\fR
This will associate the identifier \fIidentifier\fR with the
specified host. Identifier should be of the form
type:value, where type is one of HWADDR or DUID.  If no type is
specified, a default of HWADDR will be assumed.
.IP \fB-delidentifier\ \fIidentifier\ \fRor\ \fB-did\ \fIidentifier\fR
This will disassociate the identifier \fIidentifier\fR from the
specified host. Identifier should be of the form
type:value, where type is one of HWADDR or DUID.  If no type is
specified, a default of HWADDR will be assumed.

.IP \fB-listrecords\ \fRor\ \fB-lrr\fR
List all DNS resource records associated with the specified host.
.IP \fB-addrecord\ \fIrecord\ \fRor\ \fB-arr\ \fIrecord\fR
This will associate the DNS resource record \fIrecord\fR with the
specified host. The record should be of the form type:value, where type
is a DNS RR type such as MX, NS, SRV, etc.
.IP \fB-delrecord\ \fIrecord\ \fRor\ \fB-drr\ \fIrecord\fR
THis will disassociate the DNS resource record \fIrecord\fR from the
specified host.  The record should be of the form type:value, where type
is a DNS RR type such as MX, NS, SRV, etc.

.IP \fB-vendor\ \fIvendor\ \fRor\ \fB-V\ \fIvendor\fR
Update the vendor field for the specified host to \fIvendor\fR.
.IP \fB-model\ \fImodel\ \fRor\ \fB-M\ \fImodel\fR
Update the model field for the specified host to \fImodel\fR.
.IP \fB-os\ \fIos\ \fRor\ \fB-o\ \fIos\fR
Update the OS field for the specified host to \fIos\fR.
.IP \fB-location\ \fIlocation\ \fRor\ \fB-L\ \fIlocation\fR
Update the location field for the specified host to \fIlocation\fR.

.IP \fB-address\ \fInetwork:address\ \fRor\ \fB-A\ \fInetwork:address\fR
Add an IP address to the host record.  Address must be specified as 
\fInetwork:address\fR, where network corresponds to a subnet defined in Moira
and address is either an IP address appropriately formatted for the type of
network (either IPv4 or IPv6) or the string "unique" to assign a unique
address approriate for that network.
.IP \fB-deleteaddress\ \fInetwork:address\ \fRor\ \fB-DA\ \fInetwork:address\fR
Removes an IP address to the host record.  Address must be specified as
\fInetwork:address\fR, where network corresponds to a subnet defined in
Moira and address is an IP address that has previously been assigned to
this host record.

.IP \fB-opcmt\ \fIop_cmt\ \fRor\ \fB-oc\ \fIop_cmt\fR
Set the operational comment for the specified host to \fIop_cmt\fR.
.IP \fB-admcmt\ \fIadm_cmt\ \fRor\ \fB-ac\ \fIadm_cmt\fR
Set the administrative comment for the specified host to \fIadm_cmt\fR.

.IP \fB-contact\ \fIcontact\ \fRor\ \fB-c\ \fIcontact\fR
Update the contact information for the given host to \fIcontact\fR.
.IP \fB-billingcontact\ \fIcontact\ \fRor\ \fB-bc\ \fIcontact\fR
Update the billing contact information for the given host to \fIcontact\fR.
.IP \fB-accountnumber\ \fIaccountnumber\ \fRor\ \fB-an\ \fIaccountnumber\fR
Update the account number information for the given host to 
\fIaccountnumber\fR.
.IP \fB-status\ \fIstatus\ \fRor\ \fB-S\ \fIstatus\fR
Set the status of the specified host to \fIstatus\fR.

.IP \fB-owner\ \fIowner\ \fRor\ \fB-O\ \fIowner\fR
Set the owner of the specified host to \fIowner\fR.

You may specify an owner explicitly, as user:username, list:listname,
or kerberos:principal_name; or the type may be
left off if the owner name is non ambiguous.
.B Stella
will try first as a user, and if that fails will try the member as a
list.
.IP \fB-optin\ \fRor\ \fB-oi\fR
Enable the network firewall policy for the specified host.  Using this
option will clear the associated operational comment for the host.
.IP \fB-optout\ \fRor\ \fB-oo\fR
Disable the network firewall policy for the specified host.
When this option is given, \fB-opcmt\ \fIop_cmt\ \fR must also be specified
with the reason for the opt-out.
.IP \fB-ttl\ \fIaddress\ or\ record\ type:ttl\ \fRor\ \fB-setttl\ \fIaddress\ or\ record\ type:ttl\fR
If an IP address is specified, set the DNS TTL for the corresponding
host and address to \fIttl\fR.  If a DNS resource record type is
specified, set the DNS TTL for all corresponding records for the host to \fIttl\fR.
.IP \fB-adh\ \fIowner\ \fRor\ \fB-adddynamic\ \fIowner\fR
Assign a dynamic host record owned by \fIowner\fR.  The name assigned
will be printed upon successful completion.  This field is mutually exclusive
with all other operations.

.IP \fB-showusage\ \fRor\ \fB-su\fR
Show all references to the specified host in Moira, i.e. assigned
addresses, aliases, DNS records, cluster / container memberships, etc.
Hosts may not be deleted unless all such references are removed.

.IP \fB-unformatted\ \fRor\ \fB-u\fR
Display host information with each field on a seperate line, in the 
form "fieldname: value".
.IP \fB-verbose\ \fRor\ \fB-v\fR
Give more information.  With this flag, stella will display the
queries it is making to the moira server.
.IP \fB-noauth\ \fRor\ \fB-n\fR
Do not attempt to perform Kerberos authentication with the Moira server.
Most lookup operations should be still possible without tickets.
.IP \fB-database\ \fIhost:port\ \fRor\ \fB-db\ \fIhost:port\fR
Use the specified host and port to contact the Moira database instead of
the default server.  Both may be symbolic names or numbers.  If the
port is left off, the default Moira server port will be assumed.  The
database chosen will be the one specified on the command line, specified
in the MOIRASERVER environment variable, the hesiod "moira" sloc entry,
or the compiled in default, in that order or preference.

.IP \fB-create\ \fRor\ \fB-C\fR
This will create the specified host, with information provided by other
options. By default, the host will be owned by NONE and will be active.
.IP \fB-delete\ \fRor\ \fB-D\fR
This will delete the specified host, if the status field is already set
to Deleted (3).
.IP \fB-rename\ \fInewname\ \fRor\ \fB-R\ \fInewname\fR
This will rename the given host to \fInewname\fR.

.SH AUTHORS
Nickolai Zeldovich, Garry Zacheiss.
.SH SEE ALSO
moira(1)

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
An exit status of 2 indicates a problem contacting the server. An exit
status of 1 indicates that the arguments could not be parsed or some
query to the moira server returned an error. An exit status of 0
indicates that all operations requested completed successfully.

.SH NOTES
The hostname doesn't actually have to be the first argument, but if
you put it anywhere else, it's easy to get the other arguments in the
wrong order and do something other than what you intended.

